pi State Univ Lib on 07/03/19. Copyright ASCE. For personal use only; all rights reserved.

 

s
g
g
&
3
®
3
3
g
S
2
6
a

CoSsTS OF ACCIDENTS AND INJURIES TO
THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY*

Discussion by Greg Howell,’ Member, ASCE

The authors have done a great service by bringing some
consistency of method to the problem of understanding the
costs of accidents. Their discussion of the indirect costs is a
valuable addition, but some confusion remains. They define
direct costs ‘“‘as those actual contractor cash flows that can be
directly attributable to injuries and fatalities,’’ but only include
insurance costs in this category. They define ‘‘indirect costs’’
as those which are less tangible. This list includes costs which
can be measured, such as the cost of administration, replace-
ment training, repair and cleanup, etc. It would be clearer to
simply use “‘insured’’ and ‘uninsured’ as accepted by the
American Safety Council in 1959 (Accident Facts 1982).

As valuable as the paper is, in the conclusion, the authors
overstep their own data and, with no support, disparage the
motivations of contractors. Of course, the human and financial
costs of accidents are appalling. There are far too many ac-
cidents, and the cost of treatment is rapidly increasing. But
the author’s conclusion that “‘many contractors appear to be
immune to the moral, ethical, and social consequences of oc-
cupational injuries and fatalities’ is not supported by the ev-
idence in the article. Instead, this statement appears to be con-
tradicted by their earlier observation that ‘injury and fatality
rates have declined in the past few years,’’ and by their call
for joint action on the problem

Just as it was a mistake to blame productivity problems on
worker motivation, it is both too simple and a mistake to
blame contractor motivation for the industry’s inability to
solve a complex problem. Placing blame reduces both the
pressure to probe for deeper knowledge, and the acceptance
of our own responsibilities.

APPENDIX. REFERENCE
Accident Facts. (1982). National Safety Council, Chicago, Ill.

Closure by John G. Everett,‘ Member, ASCE

The writers wish to thank the discusser for his interest and
comments regarding the paper. The paper separates the costs
of accidents and injuries into two categories: direct and indi-
rect costs. The writers have taken a slightly different approach
than the “‘insured’’ versus ‘‘uninsured’’ costs that have been
used in other studies and which were suggested by the dis-
cusser. There may be some confusion, because “insured’’
costs are often equated to the cost of insurance.

For workers’ compensation insurance, there is a big differ-
ence between the cost of insurance (the amount the contractor
pays to the insurance carrier) and the cost of injuries (the
amount the insurance carrier pays to or on behalf of injured
employees for medical bills, rehabilitation, lost wages, etc.).
The difference is the insurance carrier’s overhead and profit.
This “insurance split’’ was assumed in both the original Busi-

 

“June 1996, Vol. 122, No., 2, by John G. Everett and Peter B. Frank
Jr. (Paper 10616).

*Assoc. Prof., Dept. of Civ. Engrg., Univ. of New Mexico, Albuquer-
que, NM 87131-1351.

*Asst. Prof., Dept. of Civ. and Envir. Engrg., Univ. of Michigan, 2352
G. G. Brown Lab., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2125.

ness Roundtable study and the paper to be 65% for claims
benefits and 35% for the insurance carrier’s overhead and
profit. The Business Roundtable study (“‘Improving’’ 1982)
includes the overhead and profit in the indirect cost multiplier.
The paper explicitly counts the overhead and profit as an in-
direct cost. A self-insured contractor would only pay the
claims benefits, and there would be no insurance carrier’s
overhead and profit. This is recognized in both the Business
Roundtable study and the paper, and therefore, only the claims
benefits are counted as direct costs.

The other type of insurance included in both the Business
Roundtable study and the paper is public or third-party liability
insurance that applies to injuries to anyone other than the con-
tractor’s employees. The Business Roundtable study included
the full amount of liability insurance in direct costs. The paper
separates third-party claims into an insured component and an
uninsured component, but both are counted as indirect costs.

The reason for counting all of the third-party claims as in-
direct costs is that the amount of benefits paid for medical
bills, rehabilitation, and lost wages is often only a small frac-
tion of the total amount of the claim. Third-party claims can
include payments for pain and suffering, negligence, punitive
damages, and other issues that go well beyond the medical
bills, rehabilitation, and lost wages covered by workers’ com-
pensation insurance. In construction, the injured third-party is
likely to be an employee of a different contractor or subcon-
tractor working on the same project; therefore the medical
bills, rehabilitation, and lost wages will be covered by the
injured third-party’s own workers’ compensation insurance,
and have thus already been counted as a direct cost.

The paper counts only medical bills, rehabilitation, and lost
wages as direct costs, and counts everything else as indirect
costs. In any case, the differences between the Business
Roundtable study, the paper, and the suggested ‘‘insured’’ ver-
sus “uninsured’’ breakdown are only accounting differences,
and the total costs remain the same.

The writers stand by their statement that ‘“‘many contractors
appear to be immune to the moral, ethical, and social conse-
quences of occupational injuries and fatalities.’ The discusser
correctly notes that this statement is not supported by evidence
in the article, but it is well supported by even the most cursory
review of injury and fatality statistics. Every week, it seems,
trade publications carry news about unnecessary injuries and
fatalities and contractors who have been cited by OSHA for
willful and repeated violations.

Occupational health and safety is indeed a complex problem
in construction, but numerous studies have shown that con-
tractors who take safety seriously can dramatically reduce in-
jury and fatality incidence rates. Yet the bloodbath continues,
because there are other contractors who do not take safety
seriously. The writers do not wish to assign blame or question
the motivations of contractors, but, as the last sentence of the
paper suggests, do hope to provide some economic incentive
to improve safety in cases where moral, ethical, and social
considerations by themselves are not working.

APPENDIX. REFERENCE

“Improving Construction Safety Performance.”’ (1982). Constr. Ind. Cost
Effectiveness (CICE) Project, Rep. A-3, Business Roundtable, New
York, N.Y.

170 / JOURNAL OF CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT / MARCH/APRIL 1998

J. Constr. Eng. Manage., 1998, 124(2): 170-170